This directory is the Guile bug data base.

It contains one file per bug with a simple, mail-message like format.
For quick start adding a bug, see TEMPLATE.

Each bug file starts with a number of header lines in the form

     field-name: field-value

where 'field-name' contains no whitespace and is compared
case-insensitive.  'field-value' can be continued in the next line by
using a '\' as the last character of the current line.  The header is
separated from the body by a blank line.  The body is the rest of the
file.  There is no limit on the length of a line.

The following header fields are defined.  They are optional except
when noted.  Also, specific fields can be present more than once,
except when noted.

  Summary: <text>

    A one-line summary of the bug.  Mandatory.

  Tags: tag1, tag2, ...

    A comma separated list of symbolic tag names (for example
    release-critical-1.6).  Tags can be used to collect bugs into
    ad-hoc groups.  See the file TAGS for a list of active tags and
    their meaning.

  Reported: mailbox, yyyy-mm-dd

    The mail address of the reporter, in RFC2822 mailbox format,
    followed by the date of the report, in ISO8601 format.

  Assigned: mailbox, yyyy-mm-dd

    The developer who is working on a fix, and since when.

  Fixed: mailbox, yyyy-mm-dd [, module [, branch]]

    The developer who fixed it, when, and in what module and branch if
    applicable.

  Affects: branch-or-version, ...

    A list of branch tags or version numbers of released tar balls
    that are affected by the bug.

If you need more header fields, please document them here.

The names of the bug files can be chosen almost arbitrarily.  They
must start with a lower case letter or a digit and must not contain a
"."  character.  If you don't want to use a symbolic name, use the
next unused number.  These names are used to refer to bugs from within
the description of other bugs, and in discussions, so it helps to use
mildly descriptive names.  Files or directories that are related to a
bug, like test programs that invoke the bug, should get the name of
the bug plus a "."-separated extension, like "bug-1.scm".

Meta information about the bug tracking system (like this README file)
should be put into files that start with a upper case letter.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
fyi, ttn's bug-naming convention:
NUMBER-NP-VP (noun phrase, verb-phrase), NUMBER starts at 1000.
also, i like to put related files in subdir NUMBER.stuff/.
